README.md, before:

# Prisma Engine

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Windows-blue.svg)](https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![Code Quality](https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine/actions/workflows/code_quality.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine/actions/workflows/code_quality.yml)

Prisma Engine is a modern cross-platform game engine designed for lightweight/high-performance game development. The engine features a modular architecture, supports Windows and Android platforms, with plans to extend to more platforms.

English | [简体中文](Docs/README_zh.md)

## 🚀 Core Features

### 🎯 Cross-Platform Support
- **Windows**: Native DirectX 12 support for optimal performance
- **Android**: Complete mobile platform support based on Vulkan graphics API
- **Future Plans**: Linux, macOS and other platform support

### 🎮 Pluggable Backend System
- **Render Backend**: Support for DirectX 12, Vulkan, SDL3 with runtime switching
- **Input Backend**: Support for Win32, SDL3, DirectInput input systems
- **Audio Backend**: Support for XAudio2, SDL3 audio rendering engines
- **Unified Interface**: Abstract backend interface design for easy extension

### 🎮 Rendering System
- **Multi-Backend Rendering**: DirectX 12, Vulkan, SDL3 with runtime switching
- **Modern Graphics Features**: Multi-threaded rendering, Bindless textures, Instancing
- **Advanced Features**: Async compute, Hardware ray tracing, Tile-based rendering
- **Real-time Rendering**: Dynamic lighting, shadows, and post-processing effects

### 🔧 Engine Architecture
- **Component System**: Based on ECS (Entity-Component-System) architecture
- **Modular Design**: Pluggable subsystems for easy extension and maintenance
- **Resource Management**: Smart resource loading, caching and lifecycle management
- **Audio System**: Multi-backend audio rendering with WAV format support

## 📋 System Requirements

### Development Environment
- **IDE**: Visual Studio 2022 or newer
- **SDK**: Windows 10 SDK (10.0.22621.0+)
- **Package Manager**: vcpkg
- **Mobile Development**: Android NDK, Android SDK

### Runtime Environment
- **Windows**: Windows 10+, DirectX 12 compatible graphics card
- **Android**: Android 5.0+, Vulkan compatible device
- **Graphics API**: DirectX 12 or Vulkan 1.1+

## 🛠️ Quick Start

### 1. Get Source Code
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine.git
cd PrismaEngine
```

### 2. Setup Development Environment
```bash
# Install vcpkg
git clone https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg.git
cd vcpkg
./bootstrap-vcpkg.bat

# Install dependencies
vcpkg install
```

### 3. Build Project
1. Open `PrismaEngine.sln` in Visual Studio
2. Select target platform and configuration (Debug/Release)
3. Build solution (Ctrl+Shift+B)
4. Run sample projects

### 4. Run Samples
- **Editor**: Game editor application
- **Runtime**: Game runtime environment
- **EngineTest**: Engine functionality tests

## 📁 Project Structure

```
PrismaEngine/
├── Engine/           # Core engine module
│   ├── include/     # Public header files
│   ├── src/         # Implementation files
│   └── Engine.vcxitems  # Project configuration
├── Editor/          # Game editor
├── Runtime/         # Game runtime
├── EngineTest/      # Engine tests
├── EditorTest/      # Editor tests
├── RuntimeTest/     # Runtime tests
├── Docs/           # Documentation resources
└── Tools/          # Development tools
```

## 🔬 Core Modules

### Backend System
- **RenderBackend**: Abstract render backend interface, supports DirectX 12, Vulkan, SDL3
- **InputBackend**: Abstract input backend interface, supports Win32, SDL3, DirectInput
- **AudioBackend**: Abstract audio backend interface, supports XAudio2, SDL3
- **Backend Management**: Runtime backend switching and hot-plug support

### Rendering System
- **Renderer**: Unified render interface with multi-backend support
- **RenderSystem**: Render pipeline management with multi-threaded rendering
- **MeshRenderer**: Mesh rendering component with instancing support
- **Camera2D**: 2D camera system with viewport management
- **Shader**: Shader management system with HLSL/GLSL support

### Scene Management
- **Scene**: Scene management with entity hierarchy support
- **GameObject**: Game object base class with component container
- **Transform**: Transform component with 2D/3D transformation support
- **Component**: Component base class system with serialization support

### Input System
- **KeyCode**: Keyboard input mapping with cross-platform keycode unification
- **InputManager**: Input event handling with multi-backend support
- **Cross-platform Input**: Unified keyboard, mouse, touch input handling

## 📚 Documentation Resources

- [📖 Engine Architecture](Docs/RenderingSystem.md) - Detailed rendering system explanation
- [🗺️ Development Roadmap](Docs/Roadmap.md) - Project development plan
- [💾 Asset Serialization](Docs/AssetSerialization.md) - Resource management mechanism
- [📝 Development Notes](Docs/MEMO.md) - Technical implementation details

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE) - see the license file for details.

## 📞 Contact

- **Project Homepage**: [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine)
- **Issue Reporting**: [Issues](https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine/issues)

---

*PrismaEngine - High-performance engine for modern game development*

Commit message:

docs(readme): update quick start instructions with submodule details
Add detailed instructions for cloning with submodules and initializing them separately, including the setup script option. Update both English and Chinese versions.

README.md, after:

# Prisma Engine

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Windows-blue.svg)](https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![Code Quality](https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine/actions/workflows/code_quality.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine/actions/workflows/code_quality.yml)

Prisma Engine is a modern cross-platform game engine designed for lightweight/high-performance game development. The engine features a modular architecture, supports Windows and Android platforms, with plans to extend to more platforms.

English | [简体中文](Docs/README_zh.md)

## 🚀 Core Features

### 🎯 Cross-Platform Support
- **Windows**: Native DirectX 12 support for optimal performance
- **Android**: Complete mobile platform support based on Vulkan graphics API
- **Future Plans**: Linux, macOS and other platform support

### 🎮 Pluggable Backend System
- **Render Backend**: Support for DirectX 12, Vulkan, SDL3 with runtime switching
- **Input Backend**: Support for Win32, SDL3, DirectInput input systems
- **Audio Backend**: Support for XAudio2, SDL3 audio rendering engines
- **Unified Interface**: Abstract backend interface design for easy extension

### 🎮 Rendering System
- **Multi-Backend Rendering**: DirectX 12, Vulkan, SDL3 with runtime switching
- **Modern Graphics Features**: Multi-threaded rendering, Bindless textures, Instancing
- **Advanced Features**: Async compute, Hardware ray tracing, Tile-based rendering
- **Real-time Rendering**: Dynamic lighting, shadows, and post-processing effects

### 🔧 Engine Architecture
- **Component System**: Based on ECS (Entity-Component-System) architecture
- **Modular Design**: Pluggable subsystems for easy extension and maintenance
- **Resource Management**: Smart resource loading, caching and lifecycle management
- **Audio System**: Multi-backend audio rendering with WAV format support

## 📋 System Requirements

### Development Environment
- **IDE**: Visual Studio 2022 or newer
- **SDK**: Windows 10 SDK (10.0.22621.0+)
- **Package Manager**: vcpkg
- **Mobile Development**: Android NDK, Android SDK

### Runtime Environment
- **Windows**: Windows 10+, DirectX 12 compatible graphics card
- **Android**: Android 5.0+, Vulkan compatible device
- **Graphics API**: DirectX 12 or Vulkan 1.1+

## 🛠️ Quick Start

### 1. Get Source Code

To clone the repository along with its submodules, use the `--recursive` flag:

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine.git
cd PrismaEngine
```

If you have already cloned the repository without the `--recursive` flag, you can initialize and update the submodules separately:

```bash
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

Or use our setup script:

```bash
./setup_project.bat
```

### 2. Setup Development Environment
```bash
# Install vcpkg
git clone https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg.git
cd vcpkg
./bootstrap-vcpkg.bat

# Install dependencies
vcpkg install
```

### 3. Build Project
1. Open `PrismaEngine.sln` in Visual Studio
2. Select target platform and configuration (Debug/Release)
3. Build solution (Ctrl+Shift+B)
4. Run sample projects

### 4. Run Samples
- **Editor**: Game editor application
- **Runtime**: Game runtime environment
- **EngineTest**: Engine functionality tests

## 📁 Project Structure

```
PrismaEngine/
├── Engine/           # Core engine module
│   ├── include/     # Public header files
│   ├── src/         # Implementation files
│   └── Engine.vcxitems  # Project configuration
├── Editor/          # Game editor
├── Runtime/         # Game runtime
├── EngineTest/      # Engine tests
├── EditorTest/      # Editor tests
├── RuntimeTest/     # Runtime tests
├── Docs/           # Documentation resources
└── Tools/          # Development tools
```

## 🔬 Core Modules

### Backend System
- **RenderBackend**: Abstract render backend interface, supports DirectX 12, Vulkan, SDL3
- **InputBackend**: Abstract input backend interface, supports Win32, SDL3, DirectInput
- **AudioBackend**: Abstract audio backend interface, supports XAudio2, SDL3
- **Backend Management**: Runtime backend switching and hot-plug support

### Rendering System
- **Renderer**: Unified render interface with multi-backend support
- **RenderSystem**: Render pipeline management with multi-threaded rendering
- **MeshRenderer**: Mesh rendering component with instancing support
- **Camera2D**: 2D camera system with viewport management
- **Shader**: Shader management system with HLSL/GLSL support

### Scene Management
- **Scene**: Scene management with entity hierarchy support
- **GameObject**: Game object base class with component container
- **Transform**: Transform component with 2D/3D transformation support
- **Component**: Component base class system with serialization support

### Input System
- **KeyCode**: Keyboard input mapping with cross-platform keycode unification
- **InputManager**: Input event handling with multi-backend support
- **Cross-platform Input**: Unified keyboard, mouse, touch input handling

## 📚 Documentation Resources

- [📖 Engine Architecture](Docs/RenderingSystem.md) - Detailed rendering system explanation
- [🗺️ Development Roadmap](Docs/Roadmap.md) - Project development plan
- [💾 Asset Serialization](Docs/AssetSerialization.md) - Resource management mechanism
- [📝 Development Notes](Docs/MEMO.md) - Technical implementation details

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE) - see the license file for details.

## 📞 Contact

- **Project Homepage**: [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine)
- **Issue Reporting**: [Issues](https://github.com/Excurs1ons/PrismaEngine/issues)

---

*PrismaEngine - High-performance engine for modern game development*
